This readme.txt file was generated on 2023-09-12 by Tim Toavs


GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Title of Dataset: 
	CDFLOW

2. Overview:
	CDFLOW is a dataset consisting of CO2 estimates within flowing freshwaters in the lower 48 US states from 1990-01-01 though 2020-12-31. 

3. Author Information
	A. First Contact
		Name: Tim Toavs 
		Institution: Louisiana State University
		Email: ttoavs1@lsu.esu

	B. Second Contact
		Name: Steve Midway
		Institution: Louisiana State University
		Email: smidway@lsu.edu


4. Dataset creation date:
	2023-09-12

5. Geographic location of data within the dataset: 
	Lower 48 United States

6. Funding source: 
	Louisiana Board of Regents



SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: 
	None

2. Links to publications that cite or use the data: 
	None


3. Was data derived from another source?
	Data consists of CO2 estimates derived from downloaded data from the following databases:
	A. Water quality data portal (www.waterqualitydata.us)
	B. NHDPlus (nhdplus.com/NHDPlus)

4. Data set suggested citation: 
	Toavs, Timothy; Midway, Steve; Hasler, Caleb; Suski, Cory (2022): CDFLOW - A 30-year dataset on CO2 in flowing freshwaters in the United States. figshare. Dataset. https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.19787326 


DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

1. File List: 
	Dataset exists as a single .csv file

2. Are there multiple versions of the dataset? 
	no
 

METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION

1. Description of methods used for generation of data: 
	-CDFLOW CO2 estimations were generated by downloading US water quality data, including pH, temperature, and total alkalinity measuments and using the USGS program PHREEQC to estimate CO2. Site data for CDFLOW was generated by spacially joining lat/long data from the dowloaded water quality data with the EPAs NHDPlus dataset to the nearest streamcatchment feature. NHDPlus streamcatchment features are geometric features of unique stream sections denoted by a unique COMID code.
	-A detailed description of CDFLOW data generation can be found in the citation below:
		In progress...


DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: CDFLOW-LA

1. Number of variables:
	10

2. Number of cases/rows: 
	779,186

3. Variable List:
	**Note, data type of data under a specific varible will be listed withiin "" after the varible name. The data types follow data types within the statistical computer programing languge R**

	1. Comid "character": Stream Catchment code where the pCO2 estimates exists. The code is derived from the EPA StreamCat dataset within the NHDPlus dataset.

	2. Date "character": format, MM-DD-YYYY; r format, "%m/%d/%y"

	3. Time "character:: format, HH:MM:SS; r format, "%h:%m:%s"

	4. HUC_12 "integer": 12 digit hydrological unit code

	5. State "character": US state where data point was located, given in standard state abbreviation code

	6. Temp.C "numeric": temperature in units celcius

	7. pH.std_units "numeric": pH given in standard pH units

	8. Alkalinity_ueq/kgw "numeric": total alkalinity in units - micro equivilence per kilogram water

	9. pCO2.uatm "numeric": partial pressure of CO2 given in units - micro atmospheres
	
	10. CO2.mg/l "numeric": CO2 concentrations given in units - milligrams per liter

	

4. Missing data codes: 
	No missing data within dataset

